---
# Feel free to add content and custom Front Matter to this file.
# To modify the layout, see https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults

layout: home
---

One of the best things about working in IT is also one of the worst: there's always something new to learn. How one feels about this fact depends on where they are in their career, how demanding (distracting?) competing iterests are at any given time, and, frankly, one's passion for the field. Personally, I've reached the point in my career where it now requires _effort_ to stay abreast of developments (I've also been doing this long enough to realize that most of what we call "new" is a reinvention or repackaging of something that came before; yes, I've grown cynical). Which brings us to the subject of these pages.

Project Madison is something new for me: an experiment in public learning. My backlog has grown sufficiently large that either I must do something about it or accept my role as an O365 jockey until I retire. Since I am most definitely **not** ready to accept that fate, and my work no longer provides convenient opportunities to up-skill as part of the job (yes, I have occasionally succumbed to the temptation to pracitce [resume-driven development]([[2101.12703\] Résumé-Driven Development: A Definition and Empirical Characterization (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.12703)); I'm not proud of it), I'm taking more drastic (and less deadline driven) means to achieving my goals: hobby programming.

In these pages and the accompanying [Git repository]([miscellanea-io/madison: Project Madison source code and supporting documentation. (github.com)](https://github.com/miscellanea-io/madison)), you'll find an evolving record of my experiences building a woefully over-engineered "scratch" to an itch : analyzing and organizing my growing collection of eBooks. Yes, there are better solutions to the problem  already available--some of them open source and free-as-in-speech (see the excellent [Calibre]([calibre - E-book management (calibre-ebook.com)](https://calibre-ebook.com/)))--but developing a _product_ isn't my goal: it's establishing a nominally useful context in which learning can occur. Over the coming months, you'll see elements of my backlog (text processing, application containerization, Kubernetes, Go, ASP.net Core, Blazor on MAUI, etc.) played out in a bewildering array of polyglot madness. My plan is to accompany each with a series of blog posts providing commentary and rationale that, with luck, with help you learn something too. Be warned: I would **never** recommend something like this in my day job!

But that's why this is _hobby programming_, right? Right?!

Finally, why "Project Madison"? I could say I chose the name because [James Madison]([James Madison - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Madison)), the 4th president of the United States, is credited with proposing what ultimately became the [Library of Congress]([Library of Congress - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Library_of_Congress)) to the US Congress in 1783 (although it wasn't established un April 24, 1800 under the presidency of [John Adams](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Adams)). As such, _Madison_ is a thematically appropriate name for a system that organizes documents. I could also point out that I am a fan of the Peanuts gang (especially _It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown_; I love Halloween) and enjoyed _Zingers_ snack cakes when I was a child (these were produced by _Dolly Madison_ and named for [Dolley Madison]([Dolley Madison - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dolley_Madison)), the wife of the aforementioned James). I like synergy. Then again, I needed to call it something and maybe I just like the name.
